did you know that you can change the
color of your website and you can make
more money seriously hey everyone i'm
neil patel and today i'm going to break
down marketing color psychology the
meaning behind colors and how they
affect conversions
before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click the alert notification
in a study titled impact of color on
marketing researchers found that up to
90 of snap judgments are made about
products that can be based on color
alone
there are a few things that affect how
colors are perceived in marketing look
there's personal preferences there's
individual experiences there's even
cultural differences colors in india may
not appeal to as much as colors in the
united states and vice versa the
industry you're selling in also affects
it in the luxury market you usually
don't see things that are bright neon
green
different genders also and individuals
have their own preferences on color
colors really aren't universal
and they aren't seen with the same
meaning and they aren't perceived in the
same way
so when someone says green means calm or
blue means trustworthiness you need to
be careful to whether or not you should
apply that to your marketing
see
in the u.s pink is associated with
princess and ballet dancers while in
japan pink is a color of cherry blossom
and is perceived a bit differently
you should make decisions about color in
your marketing and branding
beyond colors you need to know from
start what's the core message that you
want to communicate through your brand
and marketing messages
look
what should you be asking yourself and
if possible do the research and collect
feedback to validate hey is this color
appropriate for what i'm selling
so now that we got all that out of the
way i want to get into some tips that'll
help you out
tip number one
should you choose colors based on the
context that they'll be in
call to actions for example colors that
create contrast from the main colors of
your brand typically perform better now
with call to action buttons you usually
don't want to use the word color red
i've usually found that to decrease
colors so just keep that in mind
now let's think about brand colors
make sure they align between your brand
and personality
and the colors that you're choosing
right always keep in mind that what
audience you're targeting the age groups
the genders the culture that'll have
direct impact on the perception of your
brand colors for example my kid loves
bright colors but keep in mind my kid's
not going to buy anything from you she's
only two years old i on the other hand
i'm probably gonna buy so if you show me
all these colors for a luxury item
unless my daughter points it out which
funny enough when i have my laptop open
she'd be like daddy daddy i want ariel i
think ariel's little mermaid the
i forgot what she's called but she's a
little mermaid and i go on amazon and my
daughter will search for them like if
you potty in the toilet i'll hook you up
with the aerial although that's a bad
habit and i don't recommend doing that
so we digress let's get back to
optimizing for colors
so headlines the intent of your headline
will dictate the type of color you
should use are you trying to convey
urgency are you trying to convey
something that's calm that benefits you
something that's trustworthiness
if you're promoting something aggressive
like flash sales for example you need to
use colors that have a sense of urgency
and contrast like yellow and red
although yellow against white not a good
combination and red depending on your
brand colors red could work really well
for your headlines for flash sales
if you're promoting a content piece and
you don't need to be very aggressive you
may want to use
colors that work seamless with your
brand like black it usually works with
most websites and text
so now let's talk about backgrounds
when you have to pick the background
color make sure it's in contrast with
the foreground color
pick either the darkest or brightest
color in your palette and go for white
or black then fit the other elements
accordingly
i know that was a big tip number one so
you may need to rewind a little bit but
just keep that in mind when you're
choosing colors for different sections
of your website
so now let's dive into tip two
use colors to help your visitors
navigate and flow through the content
intuitively
you want to create a sense of hierarchy
colors help visitors define what's the
primary information that they should be
looking at and what's secondary a great
example of this is headings or titles
ideally what elements that you want the
visitors to interact with should have
colors that are easy to identify and pop
out more and entice your visitors to
take action and when i say pop out more
i'm not talking neon colors just make
sure they stand out
you in essence want to create contrast
your call to actions should draw users
attention you want their eyes to be not
going all over the place but going read
boom call to action click
a lot of the people think that red for
example is a great color for call to
actions but as i mentioned mentioned
earlier in most cases it decreases
conversions when we test it and i've
tested this literally well over 100
times it doesn't mean red won't work for
you just doesn't work in most cases so
pick another color that has contrast and
it's perceived in a way that stands out
from the other elements tip number three
use adobe's color wheel to create color
palettes look if you're like me you know
my wife would tell me oh do you like
this black shirt i'm like black it looks
blue she's like no honey it's black i'm
like
she's like what about this black and
gray something i'm like does it even go
together she's like yes she's just like
your green shirt doesn't go along with
your gray pants although i don't really
wear green but you get the point i don't
really have a sense of style or color
but adobe's color palette wheel will
allow you to create color combinations
that have specific relationships and
they blend without having any fashion
sense or color sense
and make sure that color palette just
fits your brand your identity and your
marketing goals and i'll go over a few
combinations that will be useful for you
analogous
an analogous color scheme is generally
calming and controlled
use analogous palette when your visual
graphics need to transmit a sense of
knowledge but
not too much excitement
monochromatic on the other hand is a
color harmony that is made up of various
shapes and tints of the same hue
typically a good choice when you want to
apply branding to a specific campaign
you're promoting or a specific product
line
complementary complementary color
combinations make things stand out
opposites attract right complementary
colors are opposite of each other
on the color wheel meaning that one
color they lack is one opposite of them
these colors particularly are helpful
when they want specific elements to
stand out on your page like a call to
action button or a buy now button
so tip four
test several colors look even if you
test all the stuff that i give you above
and you just make those changes chances
are you should see improvement in your
retention your conversions but it
doesn't guarantee it
you know no marketer knows everything
for your website there's different
situations for every single website
every single region every single culture
so you gotta test and i want you to test
literally all the main elements that
you're changing for example hubspot
found that red outperformed green cta
buttons we found in most of our tests
that wasn't the case but it doesn't mean
that it's going to be the same for you
or the opposite for you so you need to
continuously tweak and test now if you
need help with your color schemes to
optimize your conversion rate check out
my ad agency np digital and if you're
not sure what color to use leave a
comment below telling me what colors
you're thinking and i'll tell you if i
think it's good keep in mind my color
choices aren't as good as my wives but
hopefully they'll help you out if you
enjoyed this video like it share it tell
the people about it thank you for
watching